---
title: "Check Point API: Easier Command Execution using SID"
date: 2025-06-24 21:34
categories: [Check Point, Tips]
tags: [api, check point, tips]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

Short version [here](#short-version-here)

Hi everyone,

Jonas here.


When I started working with [Check Point](https://www.checkpoint.com/) firewalls, I heard they had an [API](https://sc1.checkpoint.com/documents/latest/APIs/#introduction~v2%20). I had never really touched APIs before, so I was intrigued by what you could do with it. In short: instead of managing firewalls via the GUI, you can issue API commands that do exactly what you'd do through the GUI.

**What’s the benefit?**  
The main advantage is that it’s much faster than opening the GUI. You can also run bulk commands — for example, adding multiple objects at once. Knowing how to use the Check Point API is a valuable skill.

There are a couple of APIs in Check Point, and they can be run in different ways. The one I’m focusing on here is `mgmt_cli`. This is a tool that lets you run API commands directly from the Management Server’s CLI.

### Example: show logs with `mgmt_cli`

Let’s say you want to get all the logs from today that have a source IP of `192.168.1.1`. You’d run:

```
mgmt_cli show logs new-query.time-frame "today" new-query.filter "src:192.168.1.1" --format json
```
The problem
If you want to change the source IP (for example), you could press the up arrow, edit the command, and rerun it. But you’ll be prompted for your SmartConsole credentials each time you run a new command.

👉 This means you have to authenticate every time — not ideal.

### The Solution: use the SID (Session ID)
Every time you log into SmartConsole, you’re issued a Session ID (SID). You can use this SID to authenticate API commands, similar to how a browser uses a cookie.

### How to do it
  First, log in and save your SID to a file:
```
mgmt_cli login user <username> password <password> > sid
```
This authenticates you and saves the session details (including the SID) into a file called sid in your current working directory.
👉 You can check the file to make sure there are no errors.
✅ Then, run your API commands using the saved SID:

```
mgmt_cli show logs new-query.time-frame "today" new-query.filter "src:192.168.1.1" --format json -s sid
```

No additional authentication is required — and you can reuse this SID for multiple commands until it expires.

Hope that helps. Happy lab breaking!


### Short version here:

Login and create SID file:
```
'mgmt_cli login user <username> password <password> > sid
```
Use the -s flag and specify the SID file to issue the command without using credentials again:
```
mgmt_cli <api_command> -s sid
```

### Further reading

- [Check Point API Best Practices](https://sc1.checkpoint.com/documents/latest/APIs/?#tips_best_practices~v2)

